So if you hop into the website for
the course,
which is at
frontendmasters.github.io/grid-flexbox-v2,
take a look at
the Flexbox Introduction item,
that's the first one on the list there.
I just went through the slides that are
there, so you have a copy of the slides.
We're gonna come back and
revisit those momentarily when
we talk about flexbox grid.
And then what we're gonna look
at next is the starting CodePen.
So let's go on ahead and code, and we're
gonna start with this particular CodePen,
the link is there inside of the website.
So what I have here is some very
simple HTML and some starting CSS.
So let's see what we've got
here to get us started and
then we can look at each of these
flexbox properties independently.
Part of the problem is that we all wanna
rush into making beautiful web pages
without understanding all
of the properties and
values that are available to us.
So if you build a little system like this,
that isn't supposed to be pretty,
that's supposed to simply
demonstrate those properties to you,
you'll get a much better sense
of how all of these things work.
So here in my HTML,
I have a bulleted list,
a UL followed by a bunch of LIs and
I have only two classes in here,
on the second and the fifth bullet,
I have a class of flex2.
Some of these bullets have numbers, some
of them have a little bit of text, okay.
So very, very simple HTML to work with.
In our CSS, we have this set
up a little bit differently.
First of all,
we start with the border-box model.
If you're not familiar with
the border-box, the way CSS is configured,
it starts off with
a so-called content box, and
it has to do with how we determine
the value of the CSS property width.
Are we going to include the width of
the border and the width of the padding
plus the width of the content to determine
the value of that property called width?
Or are we just gonna say it's
the width of the content itself?
So content-box says,
the width of the content itself is
the value of the width property.
The border-box says,
let's include the border and
the padding as well to
determine the value of width,
and it is much easier for
math if you use the border-box.
And so
this is the declaration that you use,
you simply say the box
sizing is border-box.
It doesn't inherit by default.
So the next declaration you say
universally, the entire universe and
everything that comes before the universe
and after it, inherit the box sizing.
And then you don't have to worry about it,
okay.
After that,
we just have a body declaration,
we declared a font,
we removed the margin and padding.
Some browsers have margin,
some browsers have padding.
It's responsible for the tiny little box
you see around the edges of web pages if
they don't go all the way out
to the edges of the screen.
This is the reason why, add your
margin and padding, zero those out,
and we set a font size.
And then here in the UL, we've turned
off our padding, we put in a little bit
of margin to make it look pretty and
a border, we gave it a width and a height.
And then finally down here in our LI,
we've set up a border,
a background color,
a min width and a height.
So pretty standard stuff,
nothing exciting here so far.